What are some common HTTP status codes?

These are the most common types of HTTP status codes, the first number being the most important and detailing the type of code. 

1xx: Informational
2xx: Success
3xx: Redirection
4xx: Client Error
5xx: Server Error

400~something are client errors 
400 Bad Request Error
401 Unauthorized-needs credentials, cant access easily
403 Forbideen, can be for a variety of reasons
404 Not found, frequent error that can occur for numerous reasons
500 Internal Servor Error
502 Bad Gateway
503 Service Unavailable
504 Gateway Timeout

What is the difference between a GET request and a POST request? When might each be used?

A get request includes the query in the URL, it is used for accessing broadly accessible data, or basically everything that doesn't change and can be accessed a million times by the browser. It can be cached in history, bookmarked, and has many restricitons. It used for everything that doesn't have side effect, it has length restrictions and should only be used for obtaining data from a server. 

A post request includes the query in the body of the message and can carry multiple data types. It is used primarily for insert/updating information to be submitted/processed. It can't be cached and doesn't remain in browser history. It used for updating files, inserting information and implies change, thus changing the server state. 

What is a cookie (the technical kind, not the delicious kind)? How does it relate to HTTP requests?
A cookie is information generated by a web server place on your hard drive so it can track who you are later. It will use this text file to store your settings, login information, forms, etc but it will also use this for advertising purposes customizing web pages based on your interests etc. It allos websites to detech individual users and includes info on the name of the server, life of cookie, and some value. 